---
title: On the transmission of information through prices
category: post
date: 2019-04-30
---

On his book "Free to Choose: A Personal Statement", Milton Friedman explains that prices emerging from voluntary transactions, where all the parties involved are seeking their best interest, enables the coordination of millions of people. The price system works so well, and it's story so entrenched in our lives, that we are not aware of it most of the time.

Prices perform tree function in organizing economic activity: they transmit information, they incentiveize it's diffusion, 


The feeling that we can't change the system is wrong, wE already a do that every day. every product that is made, every price that is displayed is in response to what we are willing to exchange value for. Our individual search for maximizing our own well being has shapped the world we see today, that was the promise of capitalism and the free market.

“Narrow preoccupation with the economic market has led to a narrow interpretation of self-interest as myopic selfishness, as exclusive concern with immediate material rewards. Economics has been berated for allegedly drawing far-reaching conclusions from a wholly unrealistic "economic man" who is little more than a calculating machine, responding only to monetary stimuli. That is a great mistake. Self-interest is not myopic selfishness. It is whatever it is that interests the participants, whatever they value, whatever goals they pursue. The scientist seeking to advance the frontiers of his discipline, the missionary seeking to convert infidels to the true faith, the philanthropist seeking to bring comfort to the needy—all are pursuing their interests, as they see them, as they judge them by their own values.”

Excerpt From: Milton Friedman. “Free to Choose: A Personal Statement.” Apple Books. 

[...codify the value that already exist, don't make up my own, the only way to get this is through asking people what they look for already on products, one of them is certifications for sure, but I have to go deeper and open up my opinion]